draft for 2024-02-07 release notes (#4094)
Azure/AKS: CHANGELOG.md

 
### Release notes

* Features
  * [Planned Maintenance](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/planned-maintenance) and [node-image upgrade channel](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/auto-upgrade-node-os-image) are available in Azure Portal. 
  * [Associate capacity reservation groups to node pools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/manage-node-pools#associate-capacity-reservation-groups-to-node-pools) is now generally available. 
  * Ability to set a [node soak duration](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli#set-node-soak-time-value) during upgrade for node pools is now generally available.

* Preview features

>   * AKS 1.29 is in preview. 

Reviewer: Which patches? 1.29.0?

  * [Control Plane Metrics (API server, ETCD, Cluster Autoscaler, etc)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/monitor-control-plane-metrics) for AKS now available in preview on [Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/prometheus-metrics-overview). 

>  

Reviewer: delete extra lines

* Bug Fixes 

>   * Enable [HonorPVReclaimPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/12/15/kubernetes-1-23-prevent-persistentvolume-leaks-when-deleting-out-of-order/#pv-reclaim-policy-with-kubernetes-v1-23) for CSI drivers on AKS 1.27+. 

Reviewer: Is this a bug fix? or a feature?

Author: bug fix, reworded it

  * For the cloud-provider-node-manager-windows component, the following versions have been updated:
    * v1.29.0 for >=1.29.0 version
    * v1.28.5 for >=1.28.0 version
    * v1.27.13 for >=1.27.0 version
    * v1.26.19 for >=1.26.0 version
    * v1.25.24 for >=1.25.0 version
  * Upgraded konnectivity-agent image version from v0.0.33-hotfix.20221110 to to v0.1.6-hotfix.20240116. 
  * Upgraded Cilium to v1.13.10 for kubernetes v1.28.0+. 
  * Upgraded Tigera Operator to [v1.30.7](https://github.com/tigera/operator/releases/tag/v1.30.7), azurefile-csi-driver to [v1.29.3](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.29.3), and Microsoft Defender for Cloud Low Level Collector to v.2.0.0 starting with Kubernetes v1.29 preview. 
    * Calico [v3.26.3](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/releases/tag/v3.26.3) is installed when using Tigera Operator v1.30.7. 

>     * Microsoft Defender for Cloud Low Level Collector v.2.0.0 includes a new process collection engine, optimized and reduced CPU & Memory usage.

Author: please review

>     * Microsoft Defender for Cloud Low Level Collector v.2.0.0 includes a new process collection engine, optimized and reduced CPU & Memory usage.

Author: please review

  * Upgraded Network Observability (Retina) to v0.1.3 with minor bug fixes. 
  * Upgraded gatekeeper to [v3.14.0](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/releases/tag/v3.14.0) and policy addon [v1.3.0](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/governance/policy/concepts/policy-for-kubernetes#130)
    * Azure Policy Changes
      * Introduces error state for policies in error, enabling them to be distinguished from policies in noncompliant states. 
      * Adds support for v1 constraint templates and use of the excludedNamespaces parameter in mutation policies. 
      * Adds an error status check on constraint templates post-installation.
  * Upgraded container insights agent to [v3.1.17](https://github.com/microsoft/Docker-Provider/releases/tag/3.1.17).

>   * Upgraded Microsoft Defender for Cloud Security Publisher to 1.0.78 with improved logging, fixed a small bug related to cgroupv2. 

Author: please review

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

## Release 2024-02-07

Monitor the release status by regions at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/).

### Announcements

> * Starting in March, due to Gatekeeper Upstream removing validation for constraint template contents at create/update time, [the Azure Policy addon](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/governance/policy/concepts/policy-for-kubernetes#install-azure-policy-add-on-for-aks) will now no longer support the validation for constraint template. The Azure Policy Add-On will report [‘InvalidConstraint/Template’ compliance reason code](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/governance/policy/how-to/determine-non-compliance#aks-resource-provider-mode-compliance-reasons) for detected errors after constraint template admission. This change does not impact [other compliance reason codes](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/governance/policy/how-to/determine-non-compliance#aks-resource-provider-mode-compliance-reasons). Customers are encouraged to continue to follow best practices when updating Azure Policy for Kubernetes definitions (i.e. [Gator CLI](https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/website/docs/gator/).

Reviewer 2: nit: another ')' needed at the end of line.

> * Kubernetes 1.25 was deprecated on January 14, 2024 and support transitions to [platform support policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions?tabs=azure-cli#platform-support-policy). Please upgrade to Kubernetes version 1.26 or above.

Reviewer 2: this was in the past, we can remove this

Author: which one, gatekeeper or 1.25? I got an explicit request to add gatekeeper, because the date changed from starting from now to starting in march due to rollout

Reviewer 2: k8s 1.25 deprecation Jan 14th one

* Starting with Kubernetes 1.29, the default cgroups implementation on Azure Linux AKS nodes will be cgroupsv2. Older versions of Java, .NET and NodeJS do not support memory querying v2 memory constraints and this will lead to out of memory (OOM) issues for workloads. Please test your applications for cgroupsv2 compliance, and read the [FAQ](https://learn.microsoft.com/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/aks-increased-memory-usage-cgroup-v2) for cgroupsv2.
* All current AKS API versions silently ignore unknown fields. An unknown field is a field that isn't part of the AKS API. AKS API version 2024-01-01, 2024-01-02-preview and all subsequent API versions will change this behavior. Unknown fields in a request will result in the request being rejected with an error stating that the unknown field is not understood. This change only impacts new API versions and won't impact you unless you update to use an API version 2024-01-01 or later. Existing API calls (via Azure Resource Manager templates or otherwise) will continue to function as-is.
 
### Release notes

* Features

>   * [Planned Maintenance](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/planned-maintenance) and [node-image Upgrade channel](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/auto-upgrade-node-os-image) is available in Azure Portal. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [Planned Maintenance](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/planned-maintenance) and [node-image upgrade channel](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/auto-upgrade-node-os-image) are available in Azure Portal. 
```

>   * [Associate capacity reservation groups to node pools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/manage-node-pools#associate-capacity-reservation-groups-to-node-pools-preview) is now generally available. 

Reviewer 3: While the preview link go away once updated? E.g: 
https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/manage-node-pools#associate-capacity-reservation-groups-to-node-pools-preview -> https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/manage-node-pools#associate-capacity-reservation-groups-to-node-pools

Reviewer 4: I think you'll have to remove "(preview)" from the section title for the link to change

Reviewer 3: Sorry about the confusion, I mean should we update the link to remove preview language to avoid a broken link. or, will we return to update the release notes after preview language is removed from docs. 

It's very low impact because the link will still navigate to the top level doc. So it's more of a nit than anything else. :)

Reviewer 4: Oh I see, yes I agree it should be updated

Reviewer 2: can we add an aks.ms link here instead?

Author: the docs is now live, I'll use the updated link without preview in it

* Preview features
  * AKS 1.29 is in preview. 

>   * [Control Plane Metrics (API server, ETCD, Cluster Autoscaler, etc)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/monitor-control-plane-metrics) are now available in Managed Prometheus for Public preview. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [Control Plane Metrics (API server, ETCD, Cluster Autoscaler, etc)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/monitor-control-plane-metrics) for AKS now available in preview on [Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/prometheus-metrics-overview).
```

 

* Bug Fixes 

>   * Fix the issue that the new CRD "azureapplicationgatewayrewrites.appgw.ingress.azure.io " is not delivered into the overlay cluster. This problem occurs during cluster upgrades.

Reviewer 2: need to remove 'overlay'. issue is unclear on what happens during cluster upgrades with respect to the CRD being mentioned

  * Enable [HonorPVReclaimPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/12/15/kubernetes-1-23-prevent-persistentvolume-leaks-when-deleting-out-of-order/#pv-reclaim-policy-with-kubernetes-v1-23) for CSI drivers on AKS 1.27+. 
  * Fix preflight validation failure when BYOK is required in vmss node pool setup by Azure Policy.
  * Node Auto Provision can now be enabled when aadProfiles, including ServerAppID, ClientAppID, ServerAppSecret, are being set.

>   * Istio-based service mesh add-on's istiod and ingress images updated to 1.18.7-hotfix.20240210 and 1.19.7 for asm-1-18 and asm-1-19 respectively. User needs to restart the workload pods to trigger re-injection of the newer patch version of istio-proxy. Vulnerabilities CVE-2024-23322, CVE-2024-23323, CVE-2024-23324, CVE-2024-23325, and CVE-2024-23327 have been addressed in these patch versions. More information can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

Reviewer 2: this needs to be under component updates section

>   * Fix typo in KEDA helm chart from keda-admission-webhooks to keda-admission. 

Reviewer 2: what changed from user's perspective? name of some webhook configuration?

  * Fix a bug that the id field is missing in get/list privateEndpointConnections.
  * ⁠For upgrades using Azure API version prior to 2022-04-01 API, Kubernetes version might fall behind current Kubernetes version which could block GETs/PUTs. This can be solved by doing a PUT with the current Kubernetes version but a fix is being worked on by AKS. 

* Behavioral Change

>   * Update the Agentpool Profile protocol to include the new PodIPAllocationMode property.

Reviewer 2: if it's a new property, what's the change in existing behavior for users? can we add more details on that part

Reviewer 5: With 1.29 version we are introducing couple of component breaking changes per Pull Request #266245 · MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs-pr (github.com)](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs-pr/pull/266245)

Tigera-Operator 1.30.7 up from 1.28.13 and azurefile-csi-driver 1.29.3 up from 1.29.2.

Reviewer 2: breaking change lists new versions for tigera operator and csi drivers in the linked table. can we describe the behavior change?

Reviewer 5: Drop CSI as its a patch change. On tigera there quite a few changes so lets link to their release notes - https://github.com/tigera/operator/releases/tag/v1.30.8

  * Enables the ccp-webhook to listen on all interfaces with TLS instead of localhost.

>   * Add agent-identifiers flag to konnectivity agent. 

Reviewer 2: is this a user facing behavioral change?
